
                      STAR BOOK No. 82    10 CENTS




                               BEAUTIFUL
                                 BEAUTIFUL
                               _Afghans_


    [Illustration: {Logo}]

                        American Thread Company
                  260 W. Broadway, New York 13, N. Y.

          THIS _Afghan_ CAN BE MADE WHILE WATCHING TELEVISION
                                                               See Pg. 3


                 Copyright 1951    Printed in U. S. A.

    [Illustration: {watching TV and crocheting}]


THE SOFTEST AFGHANS ARE MADE OF _dawn wool_

and the prettiest afghans are made of Dawn Wool. Our Design Studio has
gathered a group of easy-to-make designs (so easy that some of them can
even be made while watching television). We have included some old
favorites such as the Granny and the Chevron because so many of our
readers have asked for those designs. You will particularly like the
Square Dance illustrated on page 5 with its gay, bright colors.
Instructions also call for a shorter version of this afghan to form a
handsome shawl.

    [Illustration: {Skeins}]




                            _flower afghan_


                      _Illustrated on front cover_

  Size 47 inches x 70 inches
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 15 or W 41 or W 42
    22 ozs. Black and 3 ozs. each of 21 Assorted Colors
  Each motif measures about 2¼ inches.
  672 motifs, 21 x 32 are required for afghan.
  Bone crochet hook No. 4 or No. 5

FLOWER: With any Color ch 2, 8 s c in 2nd st from hook, join.

Next Row—Ch 4, 2 tr c in same space, leaving last loop of each st on
hook, yarn over and pull through all loops at one time, ch 4, sl st in
same space, sl st in next s c, repeat from beginning 7 times (8 petals),
cut yarn.

With Black, join in center of any petal, ch 5, s c in center of next
petal, * ch 5, sl st in top of s c just made for picot (corner), ch 5, s
c in next petal, ch 5, s c in next petal, repeat from * twice, ch 5, sl
st in top of last s c just made, ch 5, join in 1st petal, cut yarn.

Work another motif in same manner, joining in last row as follows: with
Black join in center of any petal, ch 5, s c in next petal, ch 2, s c in
3rd st of corner loop of 1st motif, ch 2, sl st in top of s c of 2nd
motif, * ch 2, sl st in 3rd st of corresponding loop of 1st motif, ch 2,
s c in next petal, repeat from * once, ch 2, sl st in 3rd st of
corresponding loop of 1st motif, ch 2, sl st in top of s c of 2nd motif,
complete motif same as 1st motif. Join 3rd motif to 2nd motif in same
manner. Join all motifs in same manner having 32 motifs of same Color in
each row.

EDGE: With Black, join in 3rd st of any loop to right of corner, s c in
same space, ch 4, s c in center st of corner loop, ch 3, sl st in top of
s c just made, ch 4, s c in center st of next loop, * ch 3, d c in next
s c, ch 3, sl st in top of d c just made, ch 3, s c in center st of next
loop, ch 3, d c between next joining of motifs, ch 3, s c in top of d c
just made, ch 3, s c in center st of next loop, repeat from * all
around, working all corners same as 1st corner.

    [Illustration: {Afghan in use}]




                         _indian stripe afghan_


                         _Illustrated on page 4_

  Size 56 inches x 62 inches Without Fringe
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 15 or W 41 or W 42
    48 ozs. Lt. Gray
    12 ozs. Cardinal
    4 ozs. White
    4 ozs. Black
  Afghan hook size G
  1 tapestry needle
  Bone crochet hook No. 6

AFGHAN ST: Ch for desired length, pick up and pull loop through each st
of ch leaving all loops on hook, work back by drawing yarn through first
loop (post), * yarn over hook and draw through 2 loops, repeat from * to
end of row (1 complete row).

2nd Row—Insert hook under 2nd post and pull loop through, * insert hook
under next post and pull loop through, repeat from * across row and work
back in same manner as before. Repeat 2nd row for length desired. With
Gray and using afghan hook, ch 56 and work 55 afghan sts on ch. Work in
afghan st for 219 complete rows. With 1 loop on hook, insert hook under
2nd post and pull loop through, yarn over and pull through 2 loops,
insert hook under 3rd post, pull through, yarn over and pull through
both loops, continue working in s c across row and down left side only,
working 1 s c in each row and inserting hook far enough back to catch 2
strands for strength, cut yarn. Work 2 more strips in same manner.

NARROW STRIP: With Cardinal and using afghan hook, ch 9 and work in
afghan st for 6 complete rows.

7th Row: Claw Pattern: Pick up and pull loop through post 2, 3, 4 and 5
only (5 loops on hook), yarn over, insert hook under the 4th post of 3rd
row and pull loop through (7 loops on hook), yarn over and pull through
1 loop, yarn over and pull through 2 loops, yarn over and pull through 1
loop (6 loops on hook), yarn over, skip 1 post of 3rd row, insert hook
through next post (6th post) and pull through (8 loops on hook), yarn
over and pull through 1 loop, yarn over and pull through 2 loops, yarn
over and pull through 1 loop (7 loops on hook), yarn over and pull
through 3 loops (5 loops on hook), pick up and pull a loop through post
6, 7, 8 and 9 and work back same as before. Work 1 complete row of
afghan sts. Repeat from 7th row until there are 217 complete rows and
inserting hook in 4th row below for claw patterns. Work 2 complete rows
in afghan st. Finish same as large strips. Work 3 more strips in
Cardinal and 4 strips in Gray in same manner.

JOINING: Crochet strips together with s c. Working on wrong side and
starting at left side crochet a narrow Gray claw strip to large afghan
strip picking up back loop of sts of each edge, row for row. Crochet a
Cardinal claw strip to opposite side of large Gray afghan strip. Crochet
remaining strips together as follows: narrow Gray claw strip, Cardinal
claw strip, large Gray afghan strip, Cardinal claw strip, narrow Gray
claw strip, Cardinal claw strip, large Gray afghan strip and narrow Gray
claw strip.

FRINGE: Wind yarn over a 4 inch cardboard and cut one end. Using 1
strand, double in half and pull through each st, draw ends through
loops, repeat across top and lower edge of each strip having the colors
to correspond with strip. Embroider as illustrated following chart and
starting pattern in 15th row from top and lower edge. Embroidery is
worked in large afghan strips only using a cross st. Each post
represents 1 st and the cross sts are worked over the post.

    [Illustration: {Pattern}]

    [Illustration: _Chevron Afghan Instructions on Page 7.
                            Indian Stripe Afghan Instructions on Page 3._]

    [Illustration: _Square Dance Afghan Instructions on Page 6._]




                     _square dance afghan & shawl_


                         _Illustrated on page 5_

    [Illustration: {line drawing}]

  Size 62 inches x 62 inches without Fringe
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
  “DAWN” BRAEBURN SPORT YARN, Article W 74
                                   or
  “DAWN” ANTI-SHRINK, ANTI-MATTING SOCK YARN, Article W 9
                                   or
  “DAWN” SOCK & SWEATER YARN, Article W 64
                                   or
  “DAWN” PERMANENT “CRIMP SET” NYLON, Article N 6
    32 ozs. Scarlet or Red for Afghan. 12 ozs. for Shawl.
    6 ozs. Sand for Afghan. 2 ozs. for Shawl.
                                  and
  “STAR” RAYON CROCHET, Article 700
    13 balls Buttercup for Afghan, 5 balls for Shawl.
    2 balls Black for Afghan, 2 balls for Shawl.
    5 balls Red for Afghan, 2 balls for Shawl.
  Plastic crochet hook No, 4 or F.

With Scarlet ch 4, join to form a ring, ch 3 (counts as 1 d c in each
row) and work 11 d c in ring, join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Row—Ch 3, 1 d c in next d c, * 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c in next d c
(corner), 1 d c in each of the next 2 d c, repeat from * twice, 2 d c,
ch 2, 2 d c in next d c, join in 3rd st of ch.

3rd Row—Ch 3, 1 d c in each d c, 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c in each ch 2 loop at
each corner, join in 3rd st of ch. Repeat last row 3 times, cut yarn (22
d c on each side).

7th Row—Attach Buttercup, ch 1 and work 1 s c in each d c, 1 s c, ch 3,
1 s c in each ch 2 loop at each corner, join in ch 1.

8th Row—Ch 1, work 1 s c in each s c, 1 s c, ch 3, 1 s c in each ch 3
loop at each corner, cut yarn.

9th Row—Attach Scarlet, work same as 3rd row, cut yarn.

10th and 11th Rows—Attach Buttercup, work same as 7th and 8th rows, cut
yarn.

12th Row—Attach Scarlet, work 1 d c in each s c, 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c in
each ch 3 loop at each corner.

13th to 16th Rows—Work same as 3rd row, cut yarn (54 d c on each side).

17th Row—Attach Buttercup, work same as 7th row, cut yarn.

18th Row—Attach Black, work same as 8th row, cut yarn.

19th to 23rd Rows—Attach Scarlet, work same as 12th to 16th rows, cut
yarn.

24th and 25th Rows—Attach Buttercup, work same as 7th and 8th rows, cut
yarn.

26th Row—Attach Sand, ch 3 (counts as part of 1st cluster st), d c in
same space, * ch 1, skip 1 st, 2 d c cluster st in next st (2 d c
cluster st: 2 d c in same space keeping last loop of each d c on hook,
yarn over and pull through all loops at one time), repeat from * all
around working 2 cluster sts with ch 2 between in each ch 3 loop at each
corner, join in 3rd st of ch, cut yarn (43 cluster sts on each side).

27th Row—Attach Red, work same as 7th row, working 1 s c in each cluster
st and 1 s c in each ch 1.

28th Row—Ch 3, 1 d c in each s c, working 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c in each ch
3 loop at each corner, join.

29th Row—Work same as 7th row, cut yarn.

30th Row—Attach Sand, work same as 26th row, cut yarn.

31st Row—Attach Buttercup, work same as 27th row.

32nd Row—Work same as 8th row, cut yarn.

33rd to 37th Rows—Attach Scarlet, work same as 12th to 16th rows, cut
yarn.

38th Row—Attach Buttercup, work same as 7th row, cut yarn.

39th Row—Attach Black, work same as 8th row, cut yarn.

40th Row—Attach Scarlet, work same as 26th row, cut yarn.

41st, 42nd and 43rd Rows—Attach Buttercup, work same as 27th, 28th and
29th rows, cut yarn.

44th Row—Attach Scarlet, work same as 26th row, cut yarn.

45th Row—Attach Black, work same as 27th row, cut yarn.

46th Row—Attach Buttercup, work same as 8th row, cut yarn.

Repeat the 19th to 46th rows twice, cut yarn.

103rd Row—Attach Scarlet, work same as 28th row.

104th to 118th Rows—Work same as 3rd row, cut yarn.

119th to 127th Row—Attach Buttercup and work same as 24th to 32nd rows,
cut yarn.

128th Row—Attach Scarlet and work 1 s c in each s c, working 3 s c in ch
3 loop at each corner, join, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind Scarlet over a 7 inch cardboard, cut loops at one end.
Using 2 strands, double in half and knot fringe in every other st across
each side and one in each of the 3 sts at each corner around entire
afghan. Trim evenly.




                             _shawl afghan_


              _Size 36 inches x 36 inches without Fringe_

Work 1st 74 rows same as square dance afghan.

75th Row—Attach Scarlet and work 1 s c in each s c, working 3 s c in the
ch 3 loop at each corner, join, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Wind Scarlet over a 10 inch cardboard, cut loops at one end.
Using 2 strands, double in half and knot fringe in every other st across
each side and one in each of the 3 sts at each corner around entire
shawl. * Take half of one group of fringe and half of next group of
fringe, knot together ¾ inch from 1st row of knots, repeat all around,
then repeat from * for another row of knots. Trim fringe evenly.

    [Illustration: {Fringed afghan}]




                            _chevron afghan_


                         _Illustrated on page 4_

  Size 60 inches x 72 inches
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 15 or W 41 or W 42
    62 ozs. Wood Brown
    7 ozs. Beige
    11 ozs. Amber
  Plastic crochet hook No. 5 or G
  Gauge: 6 s c = 1 inch

Starting at lower edge, with Brown ch 336, work 1 s c in 2nd st from
hook, 1 s c in each of the next 12 sts of ch, * 3 s c in next st, 1 s c
in each of the next 13 sts, skip 1 st, 1 s c in each of the next 13 sts,
repeat from * 10 times, 3 s c in next st, 1 s c in each of the next 13
sts, ch 1, turn.

2nd Row—Working in back loop of sts only, 1 s c in next st, skip 1 s c,
1 s c in each of the next 12 sts, * 3 s c in next st, 1 s c in each of
the next 13 sts, skip 2 sts, 1 s c in each of the next 13 sts, repeat
from * 10 times, 3 s c in next st, 1 s c in each of the next 12 sts,
skip 1 st, 1 s c in last st, ch 1, turn. Repeat 2nd row for entire
afghan. Work 6 more rows in Brown, * 2 rows Amber, 2 rows Brown, 2 rows
Beige, 2 rows Brown, 2 rows Amber, 16 rows Brown, repeat from * 8 times,
ending last repeat with 8 rows Brown instead of 16 rows, cut yarn. With
Brown work a row of s c on side edge, keeping work flat, ch 1, turn.
Working in back loop only, work 1 s c in each s c, cut yarn. Finish
opposite edge in same manner.

    [Illustration: {Afghans outdoors}]




                            _granny afghan_


                         _Illustrated on page 8_

  Size 53 inches x 75 inches
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 15 or W 41 or W 42
    31 ozs. Black and 50 ozs. of Assorted Colors.
  Each motif measures about 4 inches.
  176 motifs 11 x 16 are required for afghan.
  Plastic crochet hook No. 4 or F.

With any Color—Ch 4, join to form a ring, ch 3 (counts as 1 d c in each
row) and work 2 d c in ring, * ch 1, 3 d c in ring, repeat from * twice,
ch 1, join in 3rd st of ch, cut yarn.

2nd Row—Attach next Color in ch 1 loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same loop, ch 1,
3 d c in same loop, * 3 d c, ch 1, 3 d c in next loop, repeat from *
twice, join in 3rd st of ch, cut yarn.

3rd Row—Attach next Color in corner loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same loop, ch
1, 3 d c in same loop, * 3 d c in next space between corners, 3 d c, ch
1, 3 d c in next loop, repeat from * twice, 3 d c in next space, join in
3rd st of ch, cut yarn.

4th Row—Attach next Color in corner loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same loop, ch
1, 3 d c in same loop, * 3 d c in each of the next 2 spaces, 3 d c, ch
1, 3 d c in corner loop, repeat from * twice, 3 d c in each of the next
2 spaces, join in 3rd st of ch, cut yarn.

5th Row—Attach Black in corner loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same loop, ch 1, 3 d
c in same loop, * 3 d c in each of the next 3 spaces, 3 d c, ch 1, 3 d c
in corner loop, repeat from * twice, 3 d c in each of the next 3 spaces,
join in 3rd st of ch.

6th Row—Work a row of s c around entire square working 3 s c in each
corner, cut yarn. Sew or crochet squares together. Attach Black in
corner and work 3 rows of s c all around afghan, working 3 s c in each
corner, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Using all colors, cut strands 9 inches long. Using 3 strands,
double in half and loop through every other s c, draw ends through loop
tightly, repeat all around.

    [Illustration: _Granny Afghan Instructions on page 7._]

    [Illustration: _Victorian Afghan Instructions on Page 10._]

    [Illustration: {Victorian costume}]




                           _victorian afghan_


                         _Illustrated on page 9_

  Size 54 inches x 80 inches
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 15
    64 ozs. White
    4 ozs. each Scarlet, Amber, Kelly Green, Baby Blue, Sky Blue, Golf
          Green, Cardinal and Black
    8 ozs. Flame
  Each square measures about 14½ inches. 15 squares 3 x 5 are required
          for afghan.
  Afghan hook size G
  Plastic crochet hook No. 6 or H
  1 tapestry needle.

With White and Afghan hook, ch 68 and work 67 afghan sts on ch (afghan
st: pick up 2nd st from hook, pull loop through, pick up and pull a loop
through each remaining st of ch leaving all loops on hook, work back by
drawing yarn through first loop, * yarn over hook, draw through 2 loops,
repeat from * to end of row).

2nd Row—Same as 1st row picking up vertical yarn instead of ch and work
back the same way. Repeat 2nd row until 51 rows of afghan sts have been
worked, then work a row of sl sts picking up vertical yarn same as in
afghan st. Work a row of s c all around square working 1 s c in each st
on upper and lower edges, 1 s c in each row on sides, working 3 s c in
each corner st, cut yarn. Work 14 more squares in same manner. Block
each square. Embroider squares in cross st following charts, working 7
Pansy squares and 8 Rose squares. Overcast squares together as
illustrated on wrong side matching s c picking up both loops of sts.

BORDER: With right side of work toward you, with White and No. 6 hook,
work a row of s c all around working 1 s c in each s c, 3 s c in center
5 c at each corner, join.

Next Row—Ch 1, turn, s c in same space, * ch 3, insert hook in same
space, pull loop through, skip 1 st, insert hook in next st and pull
loop through, yarn over and pull through 3 loops on hook (pattern),
repeat from * all around working 1 pattern in each of the 3 corner sts
in each corner, ending row with ch 3, sl st in center st of 1st ch 3.

Next Row—Ch 1, turn, s c in same space, * ch 3, insert hook in same
space, pull loop through, insert hook in center st of next ch 3, pull
loop through, yarn over and pull through all loops on hook, repeat from
* all around ending row with ch 3, insert hook in same space, pull loop
through, insert hook in same space as 1st s c, pull loop through, yarn
over and pull through all loops on hook, sl st in center st of next ch 3
loop.

Repeat last row increasing 3 patterns over center 3 patterns of each
corner as follows: * ch 3, insert hook in same space, pull loop through,
insert hook in next ch of same pattern, pull loop through, yarn over and
pull through all loops on hook, ch 3, insert hook in same space, pull
loop through, insert hook in center st of next ch 3 loop, pull through,
yarn over and pull through all loops on hook, repeat from * twice.
Repeat last row 5 times.

Next 2 Rows—Work even in pattern.

Next Row—Work even in pattern increasing 3 patterns over center 3
patterns of each corner.

Next Row: Work even, cut yarn.

    [Illustration: {Flower pattern}]

  FLAME
  SCARLET
  GOLF GREEN
  KELLY GREEN
  CARDINAL

    [Illustration: {Flower pattern}]

  AMBER
  FLAME
  BABY BLUE
  SKY BLUE
  BLACK
  KELLY GREEN
  GOLF GREEN




                         _crocheted fan afghan_


                        _Illustrated on page 13_

  Size 56 inches x 68 inches
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 41 or W 42
    47 ozs. White
    11 ozs. Baby Blue
    22 ozs. Sky Blue
    26 ozs. National Blue
  Plastic crochet hook No. 5 or G

Each motif measures 11 inches at widest point, 5½ inches at center.

99 motifs and 22 half motifs are required for afghan.

MOTIF: With White ch 2, s c in 2nd st from hook, ch 1, turn.

2nd Row—Work 3 s c in s c, ch 1, turn.

3rd Row—2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in next s c, 2 s c in last s c, ch 1,
turn and continue working rows of s c increasing in first and last st of
each row until there are 19 s c in row, cut yarn.

11th Row—Attach Baby Blue, ch 3 (counts as 1 d c), popcorn st in next s
c (popcorn st: 4 d c in same st, drop loop off hook, insert hook in 1st
d c and pull loop through, ch 1 to tighten st), * 1 d c in next s c,
popcorn st in next s c, repeat from * across row, ending with 1 d c in
last s c, ch 1, turn (9 popcorn sts).

12th Row—2 s c in next d c, * 1 s c in next popcorn st, 1 s c in next d
c, 2 s c in next popcorn st, 1 s c in next d c, repeat from * across row
ending with 2 s c in last st, (25 s c), cut yarn.

13th and 14th Rows—Attach White and work in s c, increasing 1 s c at the
beginning and end of each row, cut yarn.

15th Row—Attach Sky Blue and work same as 11th row (14 popcorn sts).

16th Row—Ch 1, s c in same space, * 1 s c in next popcorn st, 2 s c in
next d c, repeat from * across row (43 s c), cut yarn.

17th and 18 Rows—Attach White and work same as 13th and 14th rows, cut
yarn.

19th Row—Attach National Blue and work same as 15th row (23 popcorn
sts).

20th Row—Work in s c increasing 1 s c at the beginning and end of row,
cut yarn.

21st and 22nd Rows—Attach White and work in s c increasing 1 s c at the
beginning and end of each row, cut yarn. Work 98 more motifs in same
manner.

HALF MOTIF: With White ch 2, s c in 2nd st from hook, ch 1, turn.

2nd Row—2 s c in s c, ch 1, turn.

3rd Row—1 s c in 1st s c, 2 s c in next s c, ch 1, turn.

4th Row—2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each of the next 2 s c, ch 1, turn.

5th Row—1 s c in each of the next 3 s c, 2 s c in next s c, ch 1, turn.

6th Row—2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each remaining s c, ch 1, turn.

7th Row—1 s c in each s c, working 2 s c in last s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat
last 2 rows once.

10th Row—Work in s c, increasing 1 s c at beginning and end of row (11 s
c), cut yarn.

11th Row—Attach Baby Blue, work same as 11th row of motif (5 popcorn
sts).

12th Row—Same as 12th row of motif (15 s c), cut yarn.

13th Row—Attach White, 1 s c in each s c, 2 s c in last s c, ch 1, turn.

14th Row—2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each remaining s c, cut yarn.

15th Row—Attach Sky Blue and work same as 15th row of motif (8 popcorn
sts).

16th Row—Same as 16th row of motif but working 1 s c in each of the last
2 d c (23 s c), cut yarn.

17th and 18th Rows—Attach White and work same as 13th and 14th rows, cut
yarn.

19th Row—Attach National Blue and work same as 15th row (12 popcorn
sts).

20th Row—Same as 6th row (26 s c), cut yarn.

21st and 22nd Rows—Attach White and work same as 17th and 18th rows, cut
yarn.

Work 10 more half motifs in same manner. Work half motifs for other side
as follows: work the 1st and 2nd rows same as 1st half motif.

3rd Row—2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in last s c, ch 1, turn. Continue motif
the same as 1st half motif having increases on opposite side.

Sew motifs together as follows: sew half of last row of 1st motif to one
side of second motif. Sew other half of last row of 1st motif to side of
3rd motif as illustrated. Continue across 2 rows having 5 motifs in 1st
row and 4 motifs in 2nd row. Continue sewing motifs together in same
manner always sewing the sides of next row of motifs to the top of
motifs of previous row. Sew half motifs in position on each side.
Reverse and sew 4 motifs at the bottom of afghan between points and half
motifs at each corner.

EDGE: With White and right side of afghan toward you, work a row of s c
on side edge, working 22 s c on each half motif, ch 1, turn. Work 1 s c
in each s c, cut yarn. Work other side to correspond.

FRINGE: Wind White yarn around 2 inch cardboard, cut loops at one end.
Using 2 strands, double in half and knot fringe in every other st at
scallop ends. Trim evenly.

    [Illustration: {Antebellum costumes}]

    [Illustration: _Two Tone Reversible Afghan Instructions on Page
    14._]

    [Illustration: _Crochet Fan Afghan Instructions on Page 11._]




                     _two-toned reversible afghan_


                        _Illustrated on page 12_

  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 15 or W 41 or W 42
    41 ozs. Lt. Gray
    44 ozs. Amber
  Plastic crochet hook No. 10 or aluminum J

The entire afghan is worked in s d c worked very loosely. (s d c: yarn
over hook, insert in stitch, pull through, yarn over and work off all
loops at one time). Cut yarn at end of each row and start 2nd Color at
end of previous row. With Gray, crochet a chain about 55 inches, keeping
ch slack while measuring, work 1st s d c in 3rd ch from hook, 1 s d c in
each remaining st of ch, ch 1 at end of row and tighten yarn, slip 2nd
color through loop and yarn of previous color, ch 2, turn, cut the yarn
of previous row leaving an end to fasten.

2nd Row—Pick up a single loop of 2nd s d c in back of work of previous
row, work 1 s d c in each s d c in same manner as in 1st row, working
last s d c in end ch. Work should form a chain ridge, ending row in same
manner. Pick up the 1st Color and work a row of s d c in same manner as
in 2nd row.

Repeat 2nd row alternating Colors, 1 row of each Color until work
measures about 70 inches ending with the same Color as the 1st row.

FRINGE: With Gray, work 1 s c in 1st s d c, pull up a 4″ loop keeping
loop on hook, * work 1 s c in next st, pulling up a 4 inch loop on hook,
repeat from * all around always keeping a few loops on hook to gauge
size. Fringe is worked all around afghan working about 5 s c in corners.
Cut loops of fringe or leave loops uncut if desired.

    [Illustration: {Antebellum costumes}]




                       _charleston garden afghan_


                       _Illustrated on back cover_

  Size 53 inches x 76 inches
  Materials Required: AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED,
          Article W 11 or W 15 or W 41 or W 42
    13 ozs. Shaded Pinks or any other flower shade desired
    13 ozs. Golf Green
    38 ozs. Baby Blue
    26 ozs. Black
    3 ozs. Pink
  Plastic crochet hook No. 5 or G
  Each motif measures about 7½ inches

70 motifs 7 x 10 are required for Afghan. With Flower shade, ch 4, join
to form a ring, ch 3, 3 d c in ring, sl loop off hook, insert in 3rd st
of ch 3 and pull loop through, * ch 3, 4 d c in ring, sl loop off hook,
insert in first d c and pull loop through, (popcorn st), repeat from *
twice, ch 3, join in first popcorn st.

2nd Row—In next loop, work 1 s c, 4 d c, 1 s c, repeat from beginning 3
times.

3rd Row—Ch 4, working in back of petals over the 1st row, s c in lower
center edge of petal, ch 4, s c between the petals, repeat from the
beginning all around (8 loops).

4th Row—Over each loop, work 1 s c, 5 d c, 1 s c, cut yarn.

5th Row—Attach Pink and work 1 s c in each st of each petal, cut yarn.

6th Row—Attach Green in s c of 3rd row in back of petal, * ch 7, s c in
2nd st from hook, 1 s d c in each of the next 2 sts (s d c: yarn over
hook, insert in st, pull through, yarn over and work off all loops at
one time), 1 d c in each of the next 3 sts, s c in next s c in 3rd row
between petals, repeat from * all around.

7th Row—Work 5 s c on side of next leaf, 3 s c in point of leaf, 5 s c
down other side of leaf and repeat on all leaves, cut yarn.

8th Row—Attach Baby Blue in point of leaf, 3 s c in same space, * 1 s d
c in each of the next 2 s c, d c in next s c, yarn over twice, insert in
last s c on side of leaf, work off 2 loops, yarn over, insert in 1st st
on next leaf and work off all loops 2 at a time, skip 2 s c, d c in next
s c, 1 s d c in each of the next 2 s c, 3 s c in next s c, repeat from *
all around.

9th Row—Ch 1, * 1 s c in each of the next 3 s c, 1 s d c in each of the
next 2 sts, 1 d c in each of the next 3 sts, 1 s d c in each of the next
2 sts, repeat from * all around.

10th Row—Ch 4, 2 tr c in same space, ch 1, 3 tr c in same space, * ch 1,
a 4 d c popcorn st with ch 1 between in each of the next 3 d c, ch 1, s
c in 1st s c, sl st in next s c, s c in next s c, ch 1, 1 popcorn st
with ch 1 between in each of the next 3 d c, ch 1, in center s c work 3
tr c, ch 1, 3 tr c, repeat from * all around and join in 1st shell.

11th Row—Work a row of s c all around working 1 s c in each st and
working 2 s c, ch 2, 2 s c in each corner, cut Blue. Attach Black and
work 1 s c in each s c, working 3 s c in each corner.

Next Row—1 s c in each s c, cut Black.

Sew motifs together and work the following border: With Black starting
at corner, ch 4, d c in same space, * ch 1, d c in same space, repeat
from * twice, ** skip 2 s c, d c in next s c, * ch 1, d c in same space,
repeat from * twice and repeat from ** to corner s c, work a 5 d c shell
in corner and continue all around.

                         CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS
  ch—Chain
  st—Stitch
  sts—Stitches
  sl st—Slip Stitch
  s c—Single Crochet
  s d c—Short Double Crochet
  d c—Double Crochet
  tr c—Treble Crochet




                 _have you seen the latest Star book?_


    [Illustration: {Skeins}]

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #69
                               Pocket Potholders]

Fifteen quickly made potholders which can all be made with pockets and
thumbs for safety.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #70
                                 Hot Plate Mats]

Square, round, oval, fashioned in new hot plate designs. Includes
popular napkin holder instructions.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #71
                                 Doily Bouquet]

Directions for thirteen doilies in flower and butterfly designs. Also
includes directions for a basic doily.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #72
                                 Your Baby Book]

Kiddies’ sets, blankets, toys, sweaters, sacques—adorable easy-to-make
designs.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #73
                                 Beautiful Rugs]

Contains full easy-to-make instructions for tufted, crocheted and
braided rugs. For all rooms.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #75
                                   Nylon Book]

A basic nylon book with over twenty designs in sweaters, socks, mittens
and baby sets.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #76
                          Beginner’s Manual of Crochet]

Shows the first step in crocheting, tatting and hairpin lace ... also
some advanced designs. A must for the crochet library.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #77
                         Beginner’s Manual of Knitting]

Shows the first knitting steps in pictures and story for the beginner. A
practical handbook for all knitters.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #78
                          Television and Radio Scarfs]

Crocheted motifs for scarfs, tablecloths, bedspreads, chairbacks,
insertions. Illustrated life-size stitches in full color.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #79
                                 Hats and Bags]

The latest, smartest crocheted ideas in hats, bags, beanies, gloves,
slippers—plain and fancy stitches.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #80
                          Gay and Gifty Crochet Ideas]

Doll’s clothes, doilies, hot plate mats and other gift ideas for quick
bazaar sales.

    [Illustration:               STAR Book #81
                                    Edgings]

Crocheted, tatted and hairpin lace edgings for handkerchiefs, luncheon
sets, towels and cases. Large, clear, colorful illustrations.

    [Illustration: Instructions on Pg. 14]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Star Book No. 82: Beautiful Beautiful
Afghans, by Anonymous

